The first thing that all great communicators possess is a
childlike curiosity. The dictionary defines "curiosity" as a
strong desire to know or learn something. Have you got kids
or younger siblings? Then you know how curious kids can be.
They want to know how things work, where things come from,
and why we do the things we do. They ask us deep questions.
They catch us off guard and make us consider things we had
never thought about before. Kids ask us so many questions
that we end up getting annoyed, partly because no one likes
answering countless questions but I suspect that it's also
because we don't have the answers to half the questions they
ask us and it makes us feel ignorant. Now, you might forget
this from time to time, but you were once a kid. You most
likely had the same level of curiosity. Everything was
interesting and you wanted to know more about the world and
how it worked. But somewhere along the line, you, like most
of us, lost that childlike curiosity. There could be many
reasons for this, but that's beside my point. In my
experience, most people will struggle to have good
conversations because they're not curious at all. Most
people have no desire to learn new things, and most of the
time it's because they think they know everything already.
So instead of listening with the intention of learning
something, they listen only with the intention of responding
to what's being said. I really need you to understand the
difference between those two things. The arrogant,
uninterested individual who lacks curiosity, doesn't want to
hear people out and understand where they're coming from but
instead he cuts them off as soon as he hears something he
disagrees with. Whenever someone says something he dislikes
or disagrees with, he immediately labels them as stupid. And
you can't learn anything from stupid people therefore,
there's no reason to listen to him. So he just strokes his
own ego by going on and on about what he thinks he knows.
This is not listening. Imagine calling your girlfriend and
telling her that you want to have sex. So you invite her to
your house, you get her out of clothes, you get in bed but
then you tell her to just sit there and watch you
masturbate. She's not allowed to participate. She's not
allowed to give instructions. She just has to sit there and
watch you stroke yourself. That's what it's like when you
tell someone you want to have a conversation, but then you
just go on and on and fucking on about what you think. You
know, never giving them a chance to be heard or understood.
But a great communicator understands that everyone has
something to teach him. Great communicators want to know how
things work, where things come from, and why we do the
things we do. Just like children. They do not take things at
face value. They're always trying to dig deeper, to
understand people better, to gain better insights into human
behavior. They know there's a difference between what people
say and what people mean. And it's curiosity that compels
them to go beyond the vague things people say in order to
get to the deeper message that's being communicated. Now,
I'll give you an example of that in just a moment. But
first, let me tell you about the second thing that all great
communicators have. Listening skills.
Listening skills are the most valuable asset any
communicator can have. It's also the most overlooked, which
is why most people never invest in them. A lot of English
learners will say they need to improve their listening when
they really just want to improve their comprehension. Now,
I'm not a linguist, but in my mind, comprehension refers to
one's ability to understand the meaning of the words being
said. For example, when I say the word "dog", you can
probably envision a furry four-legged animal that goes
"woof, woof", right? But if I say, "You're a fucking dog!"
You can comprehend those words, but you're a human, so why
would I be calling you a "dog"? You would need to use the
context of the situation to understand that I'm basically
calling you a despicable human being. So while comprehension
refers to being able to recognize words being said,
listening refers to one's ability to understand the message
being communicated by the words being said. As I said
before, great communicators understand that the things
people say are often different from the things they mean to
say. If you can internalize this idea and complement it with
your childlike curiosity, I guarantee you, you will come to
understand people much better. Now, let me give you an
example of what I'm talking about. Imagine your dad comes
home from work and you ask him how his day was. He responds
by telling you it was a rough day and he's tired of dealing
with all the bullshit that comes with his job. So you might
say something like, "Damn, that's too bad. I'm sure it'll
get better soon." Or if you're like some people, you might
not engage with them at all because you don't really care
how his day was. You were just asking to be polite. But
let's stop and think about what your dad actually said. "It
was a rough day." Most of us can comprehend the meaning of
this phrase, right? It's just like saying, "It was a
difficult day. It was a challenging day." But what exactly
does he mean by that?
The words "difficult" and "rough" could mean different
things to different people, and things your dad finds
difficult might be extremely easy for you. So you could
deploy some childlike curiosity to go deeper into what he
meant by that. Why was it rough?
What happened exactly? What exactly caused the difficulties
you face today? Have you thought about how to overcome these
difficulties? Are you doing anything to make your life
harder? You have no idea how far a conversation could go by
asking simple questions like these when people say vague
things like, "I had a rough day." And what else did your dad
say? He's tired of dealing with all the bullshit that comes
with his job. But what does that mean? What is it that he
considers "bullshit"? Has he just lost passion for his work?
Is he being dramatic? Does he need to change jobs or does he
just need a vacation? Simply listening attentively with the
intention of understanding what someone is trying to
communicate is how we can make even the most mundane
conversations much more interesting. And deploying some
childlike curiosity almost always gives our conversation
partner the freedom to express themselves in more detail
which gives you the chance to understand them better. The
more you understand someone, the easier it is to talk to
them. And the more someone feels that you understand them,
the more they want to talk to you.
Another thing that all great communicators have is an
extensive vocabulary. As a great communicator, it's
imperative that you know how to say the same thing in many
different ways, depending on the context of the situation.
There are times when you need to be direct. There are times
when you need to be polite and formal. There are times when
you need to say things without saying them, if you know what
I mean. You can navigate the various situations we find
ourselves in by having an extensive vocabulary. For example,
if my wife and I are in the living room with our kids, I
might tell her that "I'm looking forward to the rodeo later
this evening", and my wife would understand that I'm not
talking about cowboys riding horses. I'm talking about
having sex. But I would simply refer to it as a "rodeo"
because our children don't need to hear about the crazy
positions Imma put her in when we have sex tonight. Or maybe
you're speaking with a coworker who just refuses to let you
finish any of your sentences. Every time you speak, they cut
you off to tell you what they think. You could say, "Yo,
stop interrupting me. That shit is rude." Or you could say,
"Listen, if you're not going to listen to me, then we just
won't speak." But phrases like these usually just make the
situation worse. So instead you might say, "Hey, I'm more
than happy to listen to you, but only when that courtesy is
reciprocated." Or maybe you could say, "I would appreciate
it if you let me finish and then I'll hear what you have to
say." Or maybe you could say, "Hey, I can't hear you when
you interrupt me like that. If you wait until I finish
speaking, I'll hear you much better." Words are nothing more
than tools we use to communicate. And tools can be
used to build, destroy, attack, and or defend.
It all depends on the intention and skill level of the
person using the tool. And the more tools you have, the more
things you can build, destroy, attack, and or defend.
There's an old saying that goes, "If the only tool you have
is a hammer, you tend to see every problem as a nail."
Another way of saying that is with limited tools,
single-minded people use them inappropriately or
indiscriminately. If you're trying to build a house and all
you have is a hammer, life is going to be very hard for you.
You cannot cut wood with a hammer. You cannot connect pipes
or wires with a hammer. You cannot paint the walls with a
hammer. You would need a saw, some wrenches and paint
brushes for those tasks. The only things you can do with the
hammer are insert and remove nails or destroy some shit. Now
think about that in the context of communicating with
people, especially people who don't share your culture or
even your native language. If you can only say things in one
way, you're limiting your ability to build, destroy, attack,
and or defend. You're limiting your ability to connect with
other people. And so the obvious question is "How do I
increase my vocabulary and learn to say things in different
ways?" By communicating with and getting feedback from real
people. By reading books and articles about a variety of
topics. By listening attentively to the words other people
choose when expressing themselves. By understanding the
difference between what we say and how we say it. By
studying different communication styles, by understanding
how our cultural backgrounds influence the way we
communicate. If you want to learn new words, then expose
yourself to new words.
If you want to learn how to use those words effectively,
then use them with real people constantly and monitor the
outcomes of your interactions. Another thing that all great
communicators have is the ability to
simplify ideas.
While every great communicator has an extensive vocabulary
to express their ideas clearly and in detail, they also have
the ability to take complex thoughts and ideas and boil them
down to simple, digestible bits of information that a child
can understand. If you speak in advanced technical terms
that the average person can't comprehend, you're essentially
just talking to yourself. You should speak with the
intention of being understood, not just being heard. And if
you want to be both heard and understood, you need to speak
in terms that your listener will understand. Great
communicators take note of who their audience is, and then
they tailor their word choice and communication style to
that audience. And one simple, yet effective way to do this
is by using analogies. For example, people always ask me,
"What's the best way to learn a language?" Instead of going
into detail on every little thing one could do to become
proficient in the language -- which would be a waste of time
-- I could simplify my ideas with an analogy. "How does one
learn to speak a language?" I would answer that question
with the question, "How does one learn to play soccer?" And
for a lot of people, this answer would be enough to
understand the message without me needing to say anything
else. And for those who still couldn't understand, I could
continue to show the parallels between learning a language
and learning a sport. You take the ball. Go to the field.
Have someone explain the basic rules and you start playing,
right? As you play with people, you will start to get
feedback. You will realize what you're good at and what you
need to work on. You could hire a trainer to help you
improve specific skills. You can watch some YouTube videos
explaining how to do particular tricks during the game. You
could study professional players and try to emulate their
styles. You could do a million things, but at the end of the
day, you simply need to take the ball to the field and start
kicking it. If you play in real games with real people every
day, you will naturally improve, especially when the people
you're playing with have a higher skill level than you. And
if you go weeks or months or years without playing the
sport, you will feel rusty the next time you try to play the
sport. I'm sure all of this sounds obvious to you because
this is a universal truth that we all understand but tend to
forget. There's so much more, I could say, with my extensive
vocabulary and knowledge, but there's no need for that. Most
people don't think as deeply about language learning as I
do, so it wouldn't make any sense for me to go super deep
into the topic if a stranger just asked me a surface level
question. I really hope that makes sense. If you want to
learn how to simplify your ideas and speak in terms that
anyone will understand, you must practice. This is why
writing is so beneficial. You can take the time to put all
your thoughts on paper and analyze your word choice and
communication style. Then you can work to think of simpler,
more digestible ways to say the same things. You can
practice taking your ideas and trying to explain them with
simple analogies. You can and should also continuously
educate yourself by reading, gaining experience, and
learning from other people. Because you'll find that it's
much easier to simplify your ideas with words when you
actually know what you're talking about. And the best part
about writing is that it's totally free and you can take as
much time as you'd like to do it. The problem is that it's
just as easy not to do it as it is to do it, which is why
most people don't do it. It takes real time and effort to
develop and refine your communication skills. But trust me
when I tell you it's an investment which will pay huge
dividends no matter what you want to do in this life.
Now, another thing that all great communicators have is a
wide range of knowledge. Now, you don't need to know
everything under the sun to have great conversations with
people, but you do need to be able to talk about something
other than your personal interests. And if you have no
personal interest, that's fine too. I've got good news for
you: you can use your child like curiosity and your
attentive listening skills to get other people to tell you
about their knowledge, experience, and personal interests.
People will tell you all kinds of things once they know
you're listening. So if you make a legitimate effort to
learn something from every person you meet, you will
constantly be learning. Everyone does different things, goes
different places, hangs out with different people, and has
different points of view. So when you talk to a wide range
of people with the intention of learning from them, you'll
end up having conversations about so many different things.
Lawyers, doctors, teachers, athletes, artists, single
mothers and fathers, accountants, CEOs, content creators,
students, entrepreneurs, teenagers, adults, senior citizens
- I've talked to and learned from all of them in my private
English classes when theoretically I was supposed to be the
teacher. I listen to these people, tell me their stories,
their ideas and their opinions, and I try to understand what
it's like to be them. I try to see what the world looks like
from their point of view. I encourage them to share all of
their knowledge with me. And guess what happens when I do
that? They share all of their knowledge with me. And why do
they do that? Because I make it clear that I'm curious,
listening, and ready to learn. It's really simple, man. I
promise. By talking to all of these people from different
walks of life, I've gained surface level knowledge of many
different topics. I have an idea of what miners are doing in
Chile and what data analysts are doing in Colombia and what
software developers are doing in Costa Rica and what
entrepreneurs are doing in Indonesia and what medical
students are doing in Burma. I have an idea of the
lifestyles people live in all these different countries. I'm
familiar with the differences in communication styles of the
people from all these different places. And all this makes
it easier for me to speak with new people because I'm
familiar with so many different topics and types of people.
So when I meet a programmer, I can talk about programming.
When I meet a manager working for a gigantic corporation, I
can talk about managing people and communicating
effectively. When I meet someone who works in the
pharmaceutical industry, I can talk about the legality and
morality of selling prescription drugs. Talking to people is
so much easier when you can talk about what people are
interested in because you can let them do all the talking.
When it's your turn to speak, you can speak in terms that
you know they'll understand based on your knowledge of their
personality, communication style, career, and cultural
background. You should be educating yourself constantly.
Never stop learning and exposing yourself to new and useful
things and people. Try new things, man. Visit different
places. Step out of your comfort zone. Talk to strangers,
engage in the art of conversation, humble yourself, and
learn to listen to people with a curious mind. You have so
much more to learn than you think, my friend. And this is
coming from an introvert who would rather chill at home by
himself, making content, and watching anime. I can tell you
this stuff works because it's working for one of the most
introverted and antisocial people I know: me. And I've seen
it work for a bunch of other people, introverted and
extroverted alike. This is universal. Constantly learning
and experiencing new things makes you a more interesting
person because you have more interesting things to share
with other people. And constantly talking to, and more
importantly, listening to other people makes it easier to
talk to anyone because you're constantly talking about
different things. You're constantly improvising. Eventually
you're going to start to recognize patterns across all the
different communication styles and cultural backgrounds and
careers and worldviews, and you'll be able to adapt to them
much more easily. Then, you'll be able to use your childlike
curiosity, your attentive listening skills, your extensive
vocabulary, your ability to simplify ideas, and wide range
of knowledge, to communicate with the world in whichever way
you'd like. That's what great communicators do, and that is
what I'm encouraging you to do.